---
layout: default
title: What's the use?
permalink: /
---

The pain started when I was very young. By anyone's definition I had everything going for me. I was raised in a Christian home. We had a roof over our head and food on the table. My parents fought a lot, but I thought that was normal. As a young boy living in the middle of nowhere in Pennsylvania, life was good. I loved to play with sticks and rocks, and spend hours exploring the vast marshlands around our house. I caught salamanders in the brook, and played survival in the snow, and ran away from bears when they came tromping through the woods. Like most four year olds, I didn't have a care in the world. I was entirely unprepared for the bombshell that was about to land on our family.

My Dad basically put me on the bus for the first day of school, then packed up and left. He told me he didn't love my mom anymore. He told me that for the sake of my brother and I he had to leave, so that we didn't have to live in a house constantly filled with yelling and fighting. It was a tearful goodbye. I didn’t understand then or now why a father would willingly choose to leave his family, his own flesh and blood, and live like a bachelor again. I took it very hard. It’s not like I never saw him again, but it didn’t matter. He wasn’t in my life like he was before. I didn't get to lay on the couch and watch TV with him at night anymore. He wasn't there to play baseball with us on the weekends anymore. <b>I felt alone, abandoned</b>. I would never be the same again.

Maybe you've gone through a tragic event that's shaped the rest of your life. It leaves a hole that can never quite be filled again. There's a fear that comes with it, like a wild animal nursing a wound. You don't let anyone get close to it, and whenever someone forces their way in they get bitten. Sometimes you feel fragile, like this world is going to shatter you. Other times you just feel angry and want someone to pay. Mostly you just hate the night, because you're left with your thoughts in the stillness, and ask questions that can never be answered.

As a victim of divorce, I felt it was my fault, my dad’s fault, everyone’s fault. I was lost and confused, and just ached inside. Because of this volitile cocktail of emotions swirling around inside me, I had a very rocky relationship with my father throughout my childhood. I almost never talked to him, and when I did (mostly at holidays), there was very little dialogue. Divorce is a terrible thing. It destroys families, and forever scars everyone involved, and especially the spouse that left. However, regardless of the pain that this event has caused me throughout my life, my Dad was not responsible for the bitterness, hatred, and unforgiveness I chose to hold onto for all those years. Sometimes I would go off by myself just to scream, like the demoniac that Jesus encountered in Genesaret - cutting himself and howling at the rocks. I was in a jail of my own making, and it was killing me.

High school just intensified this inner conflict. The stress of being in the International Baccalaureate program was overwhelming. I found myself sleeping 3 1/2 hours per night just to keep up with my homework and extracurricular activities. This sleep deprevation made the depression I was experiencing much worse. I hated life, and every free moment I found myself dwelling on how to end it all. By the time I entered college, I was regularly planning my own suicide. I would research all different ways of killing myself. When it was all said and done, I attempted suicide thirteen times and never left a note.

## What changed?

Each and every time I tried to kill myself, a Voice would overwhelm my heart. One time I tried to swallow a bottle of Tylenol. I got eight down before I started choking and gagging, and ended up vomiting. As I sat on our dorm bathroom floor and cried, that Voice spoke to me with words of comfort and love, which I wholeheartedly rejected. A few weeks later, I was walking across the Flagler Memorial bridge in West Palm Beach at three in the morning. Stopping to look around, I saw that there was no one on the bridge and decided this was the perfect time to end it. I climbed up onto the railing and was about to jump when I heard a voice shouting behind me, “Hey! What do you think you’re doing!?” I turned around to see a police officer running towards me. I quickly jumped back onto the bridge and made up some lame excuse, then hurriedly walked off the bridge. When I got to the end of the bridge, I looked back, and didn’t see the officer or his squad car. I still wonder if an angel saved my life that night.

This went on for years without anyone knowing. I never tried the same method twice, and I never left a note. I wasn’t looking for attention. I just wanted the pain to stop. After failing to kill myself the thirteenth time, I threw the knife I was trying to use to slit my wrists into a nearby wall and cried out to God. I told Him I was mad at Him for not letting me kill myself. I told Him that if He would bring someone across my path to be a lifeline, that I would let Him heal whatever was making me feel like this, but if He wouldn’t, I would end it all for good. I ran out into the green in the center of our university campus and just sat down. For almost an hour I watched the student body walk around me while I plotted my next suicide attempt. Then something happened that changed my destiny forever. <b>Someone cared</b> enough to go out of their way and ask me how I was doing. “Fine,” I retorted. She pressed the issue, and insisted I come with her to visit her mentor, a Christian mental health counselor at our university.

That day I enrolled in an inner healing group. Through a sixteen week course I learned that the root cause of my depression and suicidal thoughts was unforgiveness towards my father, and that as long as I harbored bitterness towards him it would be like drinking poison and expecting him to die. At the end of that course I made a choice to forgive my father - a choice that I still have to be intentional about. I started a journey of healing that I’m still going through today - not so much healing from the effects of my parents divorce, but from <b>the living hell that I put myself through</b> all those years. I also made a choice to love my heavenly Father, who had been so patient with me, and to let Him love me.

## Why not kill myself?

God, the creator of the universe, created us to live in fellowship with Him. But sin entered the world and broke that fellowship. The world has been full of darkness and pain ever since. However, <b>God didn't leave us alone</b> in our miserable state. He sent His own son, born of a virgin, to make a way for us to have fellowship with Him once again. In Him is hope and life, and the only answer to those questions that come in the middle of the night. That Voice that pulled me back from the brink of death was the voice of God's own son, Jesus. He came to earth as a man, lived a life free from sin, then died in innocence for our sin. But death could not hold Him, and three days later he rose from the dead, forever alive, forever making intercession on behalf of those who love Him and are called according to His purpose. That's you. If you're reading this, chances are God is calling you. You've been unsuccessful in taking your own life because God knows you and loves you, and has a plan and a purpose for your life. He wants to speak to your heart, to heal the broken places and bring hope where there is hopelessness.

If you want this pain to end, then cry out to the only One who can really change things. Psalm 34:18 says that "The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit." If you're feeling anything like I felt, your spirit is crushed and your heart is broken. Call on Jesus, and pray something like this: "God, I don't know if you're real or not, but I want to give this a shot. I believe that you died for me, so that I don't have to live like this anymore. I acknowledge that I'm not perfect, and ask you to come into my heart. Take this pain, and make it into something beautiful. Please Jesus, Amen."

## How can a Christian really be suicidal?

The flannel board faith of my childhood couldn’t prepare me for the real pain that exists in the world. Crappy things happen to us in this life. The answer is NOT to just suck it up and keep on moving. It was that kind of attitude that kept me imprisoned for so long. <b>As human beings we are made to feel, to love, to be loved</b>, and to enjoy our lives. When things are out of whack due to our circumstances, even a Christian can forget what this life is all about.

The truth is, hard times come to us all. If you’re struggling with suicidal thoughts, it’s because you think the crappy things that are happening to you are inescapable, and that there’s no one that really understands. I’ve been there. You think you’re the only one in the world that feels like this. The truth is quite the opposite. One in ten adults has struggled with depression in their lifetime, and no matter how bad things are right now - marital problems, financial problems, abuse, neglect, mental imbalance, whatever - things can and most likely will change. Furthermore, there is a Healer that wants to bring you through whatever your circumstances are right now. He understands better than you do what you’re going through, and He’s longing to help you. He wants to be with you in the midst of whatever your storm looks like.

## Now what?

I’m really passionate about helping other people who are going through what I’ve gone through, or who have lost someone to suicide. If you need someone to talk to, please connect with me <a href="mailto:help@whatstheuse.org">via email</a>. I can check it on my phone, and promise to get back to you as soon as I can. If you think you are imminently in danger of taking your own life, please don't hesitate to contact the <a href="http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/">National Suicide Prevention Lifeline</a>. They have trained counselors that can help you get through this.

I'll leave you a blessing from the Apostle Paul to the church in Rome (Romans 15:13),

### May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.